Minutes of the first bioinformatics study group meeting held on 28th February
2020 at ICIPE

In attendance
Kennedy Mwangi (KM)
Jacqueline Wahura (JW)
Gilbert Kibet (GK)
Careen Naitore (CN)

Absent with apologies
Pauline Karega (PK)
Charles Kamonde (CK)

Min 1/28_2_2020 : Start of the meeting
GK called the meeting to order at 1509 East African time. He gave 
brief highlight of the agendas of the meeting including:
Agenda 1: Meeting time and venue
Agenda 2: Goals and objectives of the group
Agenda 3: Avenues for group communication 
Agenda 4: Key discussion topics of the group

Min 2/28_2_2020 : Meeting time and venue
The members  agreed that they will be meeting weekly on every Friday at 1000hrs
East African time. 
Two venues were agreed upon ICIPE and JKUAT, and the members will be deciding 
on where to hold the meeting priorly depending on the activities of the 
following meeting.

Min 3/28_2_2020: Goals and Objectives of the group
the members agreed to the following objectives:
1. To gain ground in bioinformatics knowledge and skills specifically in the
area of workflows and bioinformatics pipeline development.
2. To share knowledge through peer learning in the different bioinformatics
areas that the members have mastered.
3. To gain skills on how to carry out research at an in depth level through 
discussions and collaborations.

Min 4/28_2_2020 : Avenues for group communication
The members agreed to use the previously created WhatsApp group for 
communication. Other avenues for communication will be E-mail communication.
For purposes of sharing study materials, a study group E-mail to be managed by
CN will be used. Google groups and Github will be used in sharing data, codes and upholding 
reproducibility.

Min 5/28_2_2020 : Key discussion bioinformatics topics
The members agreed to start by discussing how to make reproducible 
bioinformatics workflows and pipelines. The members would start by reviewing 
papers shared by GK on the group's WhatsAPP  group. The next steps after this 
would involve:
-Picking a language e.g. Snakemake, Nextflow, Galaxy, Common Workflow Language
-Understanding the languages
-Looking at pipelines e.g. 16 rRNA metagenomics pipeline, Expression networks, 
			  RNAseq pipelines
-Containerization using Schedulers
-Bash scripting
-Coding in R and Python 

Min 6/28_2_2020: Any Other Business
CN created the group's E-mail adress. GK created the google groups account for
the group JW, kM and CN created the group's Github account and JW was to write
the minutes of the group and upload in the group's communication accounts.

Min 7/28_2_2020 : Adjournment of the meeting
The meeting was adjourned at 1609hrs East African time. The next meeting was
scheduled to be held on 6th March 2020 at ICIPE.
